Hills

I was wearing a green shirt that day. I remember, because it was really too hot for that shirt. I was sweating through it, but it was dark green that matched the trees in the shade. I don’t know why I wanted to match.
Tristan was in a wheelchair then. Acadia has too many hills for him to walk. Acadia has too many hills for a lot of people, I think. We had to push the chair.
One hill, which was especially long and curled around so the top was invisible from the bottom, was too difficult for one person to push all the way up. Peter and I each took one armrest of the chair and ran.
We ran slowly, unable to move one arm pulling the weight of the chair and our brother up the hill. We laughed and gasped for more of the humid air as we ran, as if through water, under the dappled light that shone through the trees.
At the top we stopped. We put the brakes on Tristan’s chair and stood to catch our breath. There was a tree stump next to us, covered in moss and rotting away. Still attached underneath were its roots. They were the knotted, run down roots of an old tree, dead but somehow resilient enough to hold up the stump and shelter a chipmunk hole and a colony of mosses. I always wondered about that. Tree roots are strong, even when they don’t have to be. They’re stronger when they do have to be. I want to be like that one day. Now, though, I can only be strong the way the birches are.
A young couple, clearly athletic enough to navigate the hilly terrain easily, walked by. The woman waved at us, and I, the one least frustrated by social interaction, waved back. Peter pretended to read a sign far above his head and Tristan stared into the woods, repetitively crushing a foam ball. The woman smiled, eyebrows moving together in confusion, as the couple walked on.
Peter took the handles of the chair on the way down the other side, while I rested a hand on the armrest.
Later that day we saw an older man in a wheelchair. He smiled at Tris with yellowed teeth and a crêpe fabric face, and Tris responded, somewhat awkwardly in a voice much older than his face, “Would you look at that? Two wheelchairs.”
I started laughing. The man’s wife pushed his chair on. My brothers and I sat and enjoyed the shade of the dark green trees that matched my shirt.
